Now that we know what machine learning
is and have seen some examples of it,
let's talk about how we
do machine learning.
In this lecture we will get an overview of
the main categories of machine learning
techniques.
After this video you will be able to
describe the main categories of
machine learning techniques and
summarize how supervised learning
differs from unsupervised learning.
There are different categories of
machine learning techniques for
different types of problems.
The main categories are listed here.
They are classification,
regression, cluster analysis, and
association analysis.
We will cover each one in
detail in the following slides.
In classification, the goal is to
predict the category of the input data.
An example of this is predicting the
weather as being sunny, rainy, windy, or
cloudy.
The input data in this case would be
sensor data specifying the temperature,
relative humidity, atmospheric pressure,
wind speed, wind direction, etc.
The target or what you're trying to
predict would be the different weather
categories, sunny, windy,
rainy, and cloudy.
Another example is to classify
a tumor as either benign or malignant.
In this case,
the classification is referred to as
binary classification since
there are only two categories.
But you can have many categories as well.
As the weather prediction
problem shown here.
Another example is to identify hand
written digits as being in one of ten
categories, zero to nine.
Some more examples of classification
are classifying a tumor from a medical
image as being benign or malignant.
Predicting whether it
will rain the next day.
Determining if a loan application is
high-risk, medium-risk or low-risk.
Identifying the sentiment of a tweet or
review as being positive,
negative, or neutral.
When your model has to predict
a numeric value instead of a category,
then the task becomes
a regression problem.
An example of regression is to
predict the price of a stock.
The stock price is a numeric value,
not a category.
So this is a regression task
instead of a classification task.
If you were to predict whether
the stock price will rise or
fall, then that would be
a classification problem.
But if you're predicting
the actual price of the stock,
then that is a regression problem.
That is the main difference between
classification and regression.
In classification,
you're predicting a category and
in regression,
you're predicting a numeric value.
Some other examples of regression
are estimating the demand of a product
based on time or season of the year.
Predicting a score on a test,
determining the likelihood of
how effective a drug will be for
a particular patient, predicting
the amount of rain for a region.
In cluster analysis,
the goal is to organize similar
items in your data set into groups.
A very common application of
cluster analysis is referred to as
customer segmentation.
This means that you're separating your
customer base into different groups or
segments based on customer types.
For example it would be very beneficial
to segment your customers into seniors,
adults and teenagers.
These groups have different likes and
dislikes and
have different purchasing behaviors.
By segmenting your customers to different
groups you can more effectively provide
marketing adds targeted for
each groups particular interests.
Note that cluster analysis is
also referred to as clustering.
Some other examples of cluster
analysis are, identifying areas of
similar topography, such as desert region,
grassy areas, mountains etc.
Categorizing different types of
tissues from medical images.
Determining different groups of weather
patterns, such as snowy, dry, monsoon.
And discovering hot spots for different
types of crime from police reports.
The goal in association analysis is
to come up with a set of rules to
capture associations between items or
events.
The rules are used to determine when
items or events occur together.
A common application of association
analysis is known as market
basket analysis.
Which is used to understand
customer purchasing behavior.
For example, association analysis can
reveal that banking customers who have
CDs, or Certificates of Deposits,
also tend to be interested in
other investment vehicles such
as money market accounts.
This information can be used for
cross selling.
If you advertise money market accounts to
your customers with CDs they are likely to
open such an account.
According to data mining folklore
a supermarket chain used association
analysis to discover a connection between
two seemingly unrelated products.
They discovered that many
customers who go to the store
late on Sunday night to buy
diapers also tend to buy beer.
This information was then
used to place beer and
diapers close together and
they saw a jump in sales of both items.
This is the famous diaper,
beer connection.
Some other applications of association
analysis are recommending similar
items based on the purchasing behavior or
browsing histories of customers.
Finding items that are often purchased
together, such as garden hose and
potting soil, and
offer sales on these related items at the
same time to drive sales of both items.
Identifying web pages that
are often accessed together so
that you can more efficiently offer up
these related web pages at the same time.
We have now looked at the different
categories of machine learning techniques.
They are classification,
regression, cluster analysis, and
association analysis.
We have also seen some
examples of each category
There is also another categorization
of machine learning techniques, and
that is supervised versus
unsupervised approaches.
In supervised approaches the target,
which is what the model is predicting,
is provided.
This is referred to as having labeled
data because the target is labeled for
every sample that you
have in your data set.
Referring back to our example of
predicting a weather category of sunny,
windy, rainy or cloudy,
every sample in the data set is labeled
as being one of these four categories.
So the data is labeled and predicting the
weather categories is a supervised task.
In general, classification and
regression are supervised approaches.
In unsupervised approaches
on the other hand,
the target that the model is
predicting is unknown or unavailable.
This means that you have unlabeled data.
Going back to our cluster analysis
example of segmenting customers into
different groups.
The samples in your data are not
labeled with the correct group.
Instead, the segmentation is performed
using a clustering technique to group
items based on characteristics
that they have in common.
Thus, the data is unlabeled and
the task of grouping customers into
different segments is an unsupervised one.
In general, cluster analysis and
association analysis
are unsupervised approaches.
In summary,
in this lecture we looked at the different
categories of machine learning techniques.
We discussed classification, regression,
cluster analysis and association analysis.
We also defined what supervised and
unsupervised approaches are,
in machine learning.